Add agent framework/throttling/hidden model/OS assistant and update conversational search documentation (#6354)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/api/agent-apis/register-agent.md

---
layout: default
title: Register agent
parent: Agent APIs
grand_parent: ML Commons APIs
nav_order: 10
---

# Register an agent
**Introduced 2.12**
{: .label .label-purple }

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/1161).    
{: .warning}

> Registers an agent. For more information about agents, see [Agents and tools]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/index/).

Author: ```suggestion
You can use this API to register an agent. For more information about agents, see [Agents and tools]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/index/).
```

The following table lists the available request fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Agent type | Description
:---  | :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`name`| String | Required | All | The agent name. |
`type` | String | Required | All | The agent type. Valid values are `flow` and `conversational`. For more information, see [Agents]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/index/). |

> `description` | String | Optional| All | The agent description. |

Reviewer: "A description of the agent."

`tools` | Array | Optional | All | A list of tools for the agent to execute. 
`app_type` | String | Optional | All | Specifies an optional agent category. You can then perform operations on all agents in the category. For example, you can delete all messages for RAG agents.
`memory.type` | String | Optional | `conversational_flow`, `conversational` | Specifies where to store the conversational memory. Currently, the only supported type is `conversation_index` (store the memory in a conversational system index).
`llm.model_id` | String | Required | `conversational` | The model ID of the LLM to which to send questions.

> `llm.parameters.response_filter` | String | Required | `conversational` | The pattern for parsing the LLM response. For each LLM, you need to provide the field where the response is located. For example, for the Anthropic Claude model, the response is in the `completion` field so the pattern is `$.completion`. For OpenAI models, the pattern is `$.choices[0].message.content`.

Reviewer: "in which the response is located." "the response is located in the `completion` field, so" (add "located" and a comma after "field").

> `llm.parameters.max_iteration` | Integer | Optional | `conversational` | The maximum number of messages to send to the LLM. Default is 3.

Reviewer: Should "3" be in code font?
